Real time Voronoi computation for Android
==============

This is an Android implementation of a localised nearest neighbour algorithm to compute and animate Voronoi cells in real time using OpenGL. The algorithm splits the available space into a grid with integer grid lines. It then places two seed points in each grid cell, each in random positions within the cell. An OpenGL texture full of random values is precomputed and used in the shader as a lookup table to generate coordinates for the seed points.

To compute the colour value at each pixel, the algorithm finds the minimum distance to any seed point within the current grid cell and then compares this to the minimum distances to seed points in the neighbouring eight cells. To give classic Worley noise, this final minimum distance can be set as the pixel's grayscale intensity. This example does something similar but slightly more complicated in order to produce three effects - stained glass, random spheres and random snowflakes. These are all animated, i.e. a time variable is sent to the shader which sends each cell on a random (ish) sinusoidal walk.

This algorithm is scalable, as in the number of grid cells in the space can be increased without causing (at least noticeable) fall in performance, since for each pixel the shader still only searches nine grid cells. This is another major advantage this algorithm has over the naive one which searches all seed points every pixel. A seekbar could be introduced to show this scalability in real time.

However, while this algorithm works in real time with a high framerate and is much faster than the naive algorithm, it still could be optimised as it is still very computationally expensive compared to simple image manipulations like posterization. For reference, the project worked well on the HTC One and HTC One Mini but after a while the phones began to heat up. Possible optimisations could include determining which neighbouring grid cells couldn't possibly contain the minimum distance and simply disregarding these, as this might reduce the number of calculations per pixel significantly.

Another issue is the fact that there are some (not too noticeable) artifacts in the Snowflakes effect, due to the animation moving the cells outside of the immediate nine grid cells. To aleviate these, we would have to process the immediate sixteen grid cells instead of nine, but this would be to the great detriment of efficiency as the number of seed points needing to be processed each pixel would increase from eighteen to thirty-two. Alternatively, the animation could just be adjusted but this wouldn't be as aesthetic.
